---
date: 2022-11-06-01:09:40
categories: [Thoughts]
---

Not being able to calm the mind and spirit at any age can cause reprecussions in the future. Taking care of your body requires the mind to be clear. If you clutter your head with every possible outcome you will cause your body to paralyze. You spend so much time thinking you end up frozen in a loop of inaction only makling your situation worse for yourself. The severity of this depends on who you are. Your reaction to information and ability to handle it in a reasonable manner. Personally I have never been good at controlling my fear to bring out a better version of myself. Generally I let my fear take control of me, which has led me down dark paths in life. Overall I have learnt a great deal in what cause that reaction in me. With time I have realized that my inability to react is due to my mentality. 
This mentality was forged from years of self loathing and hatred, I truly was my greatest critic. 

My crticial nature did the reverse of what it was supposed to do. I always thought that being tough to yourself would form better and better products and although it is true that one can develop tremedously by rebuilding there ideas, it simply will not do any good if you overthink. If you overthink to an extent where you have so much fear of your own self critism that you can easily end up never making anything again. Espesically when you are beginning to learn a topic or study. If you tunnel vision on the little imperfections of everything you won't be able to see the mountain infront of you. 

Being able to step back is no easy task for anyone. For a long time I had the ability to self reflection but was not able to properly utilize it because I feared what would be in the mirror

The person I feared most in the world was myself
The person I wanted to see fail most in the world was myself


